Migration of Shape Detection API article (#1623)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/shape-detection/index.md

#### Text detection

- Online social networking sites can improve the accessibility of
  user-generated image content by adding detected texts as `alt` attributes
  for `<img>` tags when no other descriptions are provided.
- Content sites can use text detection to avoid placing headings on top of
  hero images with contained text.
- Web applications can use text detection to translate texts such as,
  for example, restaurant menus.

## Current status {: #status }

| Step                                       | Status                       |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------- |
| 1. Create explainer                        | [Complete][explainer]        |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification   | [In Progress][spec]          |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design     | [In progress](#feedback)     |
| **4. Origin trial**                        | [**In progress**](#ot)       |
| 5. Launch                                  | Not started                  |

## How to use the Shape Detection API {: #use }

{% Aside 'warning' %}
  The origin trial is expected to end in Chrome 78 and the API will be

>   turned off while we integrate developer feedback. You can always use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  turned off while the Chrome team integrates developer feedback. You can always use the
```
https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/1614#discussion_r333143069

[`Blob`](https://w3c.github.io/FileAPI/#dfn-Blob), or
[`ImageData`](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/canvas.html#imagedata)).

For `FaceDetector` and `BarcodeDetector`, optional parameters can be passed
to the detector's constructor that allow for providing hints to the
underlying native detectors.

Please carefully check the support matrix in the
[explainer](https://github.com/WICG/shape-detection-api#overview) for an
overview of the different platforms.

{% Aside 'gotchas' %}
  If your `ImageBitmapSource` has an
  [effective script origin](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/#concept-origin)
  which is not the same as the   document's effective script origin, then
  attempts to call `detect()` will fail with a new
  `SecurityError` [`DOMException`](https://heycam.github.io/webidl/#idl-DOMException).
  If your image origin supports CORS, you can use the
  [`crossorigin`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/CORS_settings_attributes)
  attribute to request CORS access.
{% endAside %}

### Working with the `FaceDetector` {: #facedetector}

The `FaceDetector` always returns the bounding boxes of faces it detects in

> the `ImageBitmapSource`. Dependent on the platform, more information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `ImageBitmapSource`. Depending on the platform, more information
```
This can be ignored if `Dependent` was intentional but it seems like `Depending` was the intended word

{% endAside %}

```js
const textDetector = new TextDetector();
try {
  const texts = await textDetector.detect(image);
  texts.forEach(text => textToSpeech(text));
} catch (e) {
  console.error('Text detection failed:', e);
}
```

## Feature detection {: #featuredetection }

Purely checking for the existence of the constructors to feature detect the
Shape Detection API doesn't suffice, as Chrome on Linux and Chrome OS
currently still expose the detectors, but they are known to not work
([bug](https://crbug.com/920961)). As a temporary measure, we instead
recommend a *defensive programming* approach by doing feature detection
like this:

```js
const supported = await (async () => 'FaceDetector' in window &&
    await new FaceDetector().detect(document.createElement('canvas'))
    .then(_ => true)
    .catch(e => e.name === 'NotSupportedError' ? false : true))();
```

## Best practices {: #bestpractices}

All detectors work asynchronously, that is, they do not block the main
thread. So don't rely on realtime detection, but rather allow for some
time for the detector to do its work.

If you are a fan of
[Web Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API),

> you'll be happy tro know thatß detectors are exposed there as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you'll be happy to know that detectors are exposed there as well.
```

> Detection results are serializable and can thus be passedß from the worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Detection results are serializable and can thus be passed from the worker
```

to the main app via `postMessage()`. The [demo][demo] shows this in action.

Not all platform implementations support all features, so be sure to check
the support situation carefully and use the API as a progressive
enhancement. For example, some platforms might support face detection
per se, but not face landmark detection (eyes, nose, mouth, etc.); or the
existence and the location of text may be recognized, but not text contents.

{% Aside 'caution' %}
  This API is an optimization and not something guaranteed to be available
  from the platform for every user. Developers are expected to combine this
  with their own [image recognition code](https://github.com/mjyc/opencv) and
  take advantage of the native optimization when it is available.
{% endAside %}

## Feedback {: #feedback }

> We want to hear about your experiences with the Shape Detection API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Chrome team and the web standards community want to hear about your experiences with the Shape Detection API.
```
https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/1614#discussion_r333143069

### Tell us about the API design {: .hide-from-toc }

Is there something about the API that doesn't work like you expected? Or
are there missing methods or properties that you need to implement your
idea? Have a question or comment on the security model?

* File a spec issue on the [Shape Detection API GitHub repo][issues],
  or add your thoughts to an existing issue.

### Problem with the implementation? {: .hide-from-toc }

Did you find a bug with Chrome's implementation? Or is the implementation
different from the spec?

* File a bug at <https://new.crbug.com>. Be sure to include as
  much detail as you can, simple instructions for reproducing, and set
  *Components* to `Blink>ImageCapture`. [Glitch](https://glitch.com)
  works great for sharing quick and easy repros.

### Planning to use the API? {: .hide-from-toc }

Planning to use the Shape Detection API on your site? Your public support
helps us to prioritize features, and shows other browser vendors how
critical it is to support them.

* Share how you plan to use it on the [WICG Discourse thread][wicg-discourse]
* Send a Tweet to [@ChromiumDev][cr-dev-twitter] with `#shapedetection` and

>   let us know where and how you're using it.

Reviewer: @robdodson authors would have to pass in a lot of data but all of this content can theoretically go in a component. The only things that change are the API name, the spec repo, the Blink component, etc.
